#CU-20xxvyc staking rewards and fNFT new docs and approach (#1117)
ComposableFi/composable: frame/staking-rewards/README.md

This case is called `early unstake` and will result in a penalty applied to the
staked asset. Calling the `unstake` extrinsic on a position that is still locked will
unlock it in exchange for a fraction of the stake (configured for the staked
asset).

Assuming the penalty is defined as being `0.5`, if I staked `10000
PICA`, unstaking will result in a penalty of  `5000 PICA`. All
harvested rewards are still in possession of the user.

the early unstake penalty, applied on the staked asset when the user unstake
  early (before the end of the selected staking duration)

It means that if a user will unstake before a lock ends, he will get half of locked amount. The other half will go to treasury

### Claiming

A user can claim his pending rewards at any point in time.

### Split position
Allows splitting positons without paying a penalty.

If user had position with MONTH lock total, with 2 weeks already passed with 100 tokens.

It can split position into several parts, examples 20, 30, 40 tokens. Each of which will be same lock duraion and time lock passed.

Splitting will not loose rewards for ongoing epoch.

> Can be made only during epoch, but not during epoch transitions (for scalability and corretness reasons).

Reviewer: This is not(no longer) correct, splitting can happen anytime, please read the design doc at https://github.com/ComposableFi/composable/blob/b0d739202183fabf1c653d100da7f215d6dfdfed/rfcs/0004-pablo-distribution.md#535-split-position

The inflation rate "grows" rewards as time goes. It can be dynamically updated later.
  
**Example**,

The set of staking durations along with their reward multiplier (e.g. `[(WEEK,
  0.5), (MONTH, 0.8), (TWO_MONTH, 1.0)]`).
The early unstake penalty can be set `0.7`.

And asset to be PICA.

Above means that users will be able to stake `PICA` for
either a `WEEK` for a reward multiplier of `0.5` or a `MONTH` etc.
The incentive for the users to stake will be the fact that they will be able to
harvest `PICA` or `BTC` or `ETH` whenever a reward distribution occurred.

See details in `stake positions` operation on how these values influence users.

See pool rewards mechanics on how rewards can be distributed.

### Rewarding

Only the pool owner can transfer the rewards of new assets into a pool. But anybody can transfer rewards of assets that previously were rewarded.

There is a limit to the possible assets' identifiers transferred as rewards. Once reached, cannot add more variety.

Each total reward share increase tracks the amount which each position should get from that. New shares added do not take the amount from previous rewards. That is how `dilution protection`` works.

> ### Inflation

Reviewer: As we discussed we can remove this reference to inflation to avoid confusion

Reviewer: Also add the two account approach to managing funds of a reward pool

**Examples**

The reward rate was set at 100 PICA a day, and  1000 PICA was transferred into the reward pool account.
Each day rewards for users in the pool will be increased by 100 PICA automatically.
In one day, users will be able to claim 100 PICA rewards according to their share.
On day two they will be able to claim up to 200 PICA in the pool.
Unclaimed rewards are accumulated.

### Routing

A pool's owners may define one inflation rate for currency and the proportion of rewards amid several pools.  
So rewards will be split into several pools according to proportions.

A transfer of rewards obeys the same split.

## Positions

A position is what a user (or other protocol) gets when stakes amount. So that one can get a `share` of rewards and other benefits.
Positions capture their configuration upon creation based on what the pool makes possible. 
Positions may be updated only on behalf of users. In that case, they will capture a new pool configuration if that was changed.

### Staking

> Assuming a user has a configuration for `PICA` that allows us to stake for a month, she can `stake` an amount `X`` for once month duration with the amount larger than ED.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Assuming a user has a configuration for `PICA` that allows us to stake for a month, she can `stake` an amount `X` for once month duration with the amount larger than ED.
```

The reward multiplier elevates the computed share of the staking pool, the longer you stake, the higher your share.

> Let's say we have a reward multiplier of`0.8`for a ``MONTH`, if I stake `X PICA`, my share will become `X * 0.8`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's say we have a reward multiplier of `0.8` for a `MONTH`, if I stake `X PICA`, my share will become `X * 0.8`.
```

It means that if a user will unstake before a lock ends, he will get half of the locked amount.
The other half will go into the treasury.

### Claiming

A user can claim his pending rewards at any point in time. 
Rewards will be transferer to his account.
A user may leave a reward nominated in the same asset as the share to get compounding.

### Split position

Allows splitting positions without paying a penalty at any time.

The share and rewards are split.

**Examples**

An owning user has a position with MONTH lock total, with 2 weeks already passed with 100 tokens.
She may split it into 30 and 70 tokens each locked for one MONTH.
Split fraction is limited by ED.

It can split the position into several parts 20, 30, and 40 tokens.
Each of which will be the same lock duration and time lock passed.

### Extend amount

A user may add some amount to her stake and increase its share.

In case there is a time lock with share configuration not decreasing with time with early unstake penalty and reward multiplier, then the remaining time lock change incentives user to extend amount in existing position.

> In other cases,  the time is set to what was provided as a new lock period by the user.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In other cases, the time is set to what was provided as a new lock period by the user.
```

The staking pool has a configuration explaining which staking positions other accounts can have.

User transfers staked assets into the staking pool and choose what position he wants to take. She becomes a `staker`.

Protocol owner increases total rewards share as time goes.

Anybody can mint and transfer rewarded assets into pool. This process can be automated.

A `staker` may leave a position, claim rewards, stake more, etc.
Or she can make [a position to be fNFT](../nft/README.md) and use it as an instrument in other protocols.

## Protocol

The `staking protocol` is configured with ED for having pools and positions on-chain.  

## Pool

A pool is where users put tokens and get shares of rewards or other powers. 

Any protocol can have one or more pools. The main characteristic of a pool is staked asset identifier(token).

Each pool is governed through a protocol that created it.

### Configuration

To allow the users to stake an asset, we first need to `configure` the pool. 

Configuration of a pool defines:

Can/must user time lock tokens to get, possibly increased, `share`. What is the penalty for early unlock if there is a lock
  

> If share decays with time until lock ends and extending time starts from zero elapsed.

Reviewer: Let's just remove decay stuff, not a requirement

Author: fixing in next PR.

Or if the share does not decay with time and extending time subsumes old-time already passed in a lock (user gets smaller remaining time with higher share).

Owner account of the pool. Usually other protocol or its "owner".

The inflation rate "grows" rewards as time goes. It can be dynamically updated later.
  
**Example**,

The set of staking durations along with their reward multiplier (e.g. `[(WEEK,
  0.5), (MONTH, 0.8), (TWO_MONTH, 1.0)]`).
The early unstake penalty can be set `0.7`.

And asset to be PICA.

Above means that users will be able to stake `PICA` for
either a `WEEK` for a reward multiplier of `0.5` or a `MONTH` etc.
The incentive for the users to stake will be the fact that they will be able to
harvest `PICA` or `BTC` or `ETH` whenever a reward distribution occurred.

See details in `stake positions` operation on how these values influence users.

See pool rewards mechanics on how rewards can be distributed.

### Rewarding

> Only the pool owner can transfer the rewards of new assets into a `pool rewards account`. But anybody can transfer rewards of assets that previously were rewarded.

Reviewer: Is there a particular reason for this condition?

Author: pool created. anybody spammed with shitcoints. pool is dead.

Reviewer: Reward transfers are generally done by protocols which want to reward certain pools because they want to incentivize using their own token(just distributing tokens to encourage use), so first transfer by owner rule does not work. If you are talking about extrinsic methods, we don't really have a requirement for that. I can suggest getting rid of this sentence or modifying it as,

```suggestion
Only the pool owner can transfer the rewards of new assets into a `pool rewards account` through any extrinsic methods.
```

passed = 50
after_penalized = 0.5 # part of amount remaining after early withdraw
total = after_penalized * original_amount + new_amount
remaining = (after_penalized * original_amount * (duration-passed) +  new_amount * duration  ) / total # captures value that already was in position
print(remaining) # reduced penalized remaining time, so it is better than create new position but not as good as if it was staked originally so much 
```

### Extend time

Position owner may increase lock time.

> It can set configure o the same time or larger possible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It can set configure to the same time or larger possible.
```

print(rolling) # time it moves to new lock
```

### Expiration

If there is time-locked position.

After the position expired, a user can unstake without penalty.

If a stake expired, any update on a position will remove its part of the share from the total.

There is a special function that allows anybody to detect expired positions and get a reward for that. Part of ED of the position is transferred to a reporter.

### Compounding

If a position has staked asset to be the same as a rewarding asset, it is subject to compounding.

The reward is staked too and increases users' share to earn more reward.

The user may claim the reward without penalty any time he wants.
So rewards are neither time-locked nor elevated.
The rewarded amount is not subject to a multiplier until locked.

Anybody can run call `compound` to make rewards to increase the position's share.

A user may extend share with time lock too.

**Examples**

`10000 PICA` staked. After one month, the position holds `1000 PICA` rewards.

> A user may increase hist shares to `11000` PICA.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A user may increase their shares to `11000` PICA.
```

print(rolling) # time it moves to new lock
```

### Expiration

If there is a time-locked position.

After the position expired, a user can unstake without penalty.

If a stake expired, any update on a position will remove its part of the share from the total.

There is a special function that allows anybody to detect expired positions and get a reward for that. Part of ED of the position is transferred to a reporter.

### Compounding

> If a position has staked asset to be the same as a rewarding asset, it is subject to compounding.

Reviewer: I think we can remove this stuff as it only serves to confuse the readers to mention something we are not implementing

Author: We I going to implement it, so it is not confusing. It is matter of less then week to add permission less extrinsic and it will be resonably done. Not automatic so. I think it is good to claim feature and then do (being bullish).
